if I had a nickel for every time someone
had asked me how do I clean my blinds I
have at least 13 nickels so for those of
you who have asked in this video I'm
going to show you a quick and easy way
to clean your horizontal and vertical
blinds that's why we're my horizontally
striped dress there seems to be two main
schools of thought when it comes to
cleaning slotted blinds vertical or
horizontal the first involves a simple
use of a cloth some dish liquid water a
bucket and your hands now the second
involves taking the blinds down putting
them in your bathtub scrubbing them
drawing them and then putting the blinds
back up to me
one measure seems reasonable and the
other let's say extreme I've never had
anything so nasty on my blinds that it
required me to remove them from the
windowsill and actually clean them so
with that in mind let me show you the
first method how to clean your blinds
using a few simple tools I should
mention that this method works
wonderfully on aluminum plastic or wood
blinds however I wouldn't recommend it
for fabric blinds which actually do need
to be taken down perhaps even unstrung
and bathed in warm not hot soapy water
rinsed well and left flat to dry
first thing we'll do is get as much dust
off the blind as we can
using a duster or better yet a vacuum
for horizontal blinds work top to bottom
and for vertical blinds work left to
right
if you're using a vacuum select a brush
attachment and if you're going to dust
by hand you can choose one of several
dusting tools including a proper blind
duster like this one
a simple microfiber cloth or even an old
sports sock turned inside out and worn
on your hand as a soft puppet then you
can do a puppet show after I find
feather dusters throw too much dust
around so I avoid them all together even
though they do make you look like a sexy
French maid now for the actual washing
part add three drops of dish liquid into
a bowl or bucket and fill with warm
water take a microfiber cloth and dunk
it into the mixture ring well to the
point of the cloth being damp dry now
twist the blind slat so that they lie
completely flat take your cloth and
starting from the top for vertical or
left for horizontal pinch the cloth
around each blind slat and wipe away
dirt and dust by pulling the cloth to
the other end of the slat rinse your
cloth as you go and you'll be surprised
and a little disgusted about how dirty
your cloth is going to get if you have
heavy staining on the blinds like grease
dead bug residue dog slobber or nicotine
you can add a bit of baking soda to the
wash like say a tablespoon and that
should help break down the scummy
buildup
if you have vertical blinds the steps
are the same except you'll have to start
at the top of this slide and work your
way down to the bottom you might need a
stepladder to do this to once your
blinds are clean you can maintain them
by dusting on a regular basis using a
simple duster or your vacuum just turn
the blinds upright and work from the top
and make your way to the bottom that's
all there is to it and the best part is
you don't have to fiddle with your
blinds by taking them down waiting for
them to dry and then putting them back
up and a quick note on cleaning fabric
blinds I don't have any to demonstrate
on but what I do recommend is to vacuum
them regularly to avoid build-up and
discoloration I've got a question for
the clean my space community what is the
last time you clean your blinds if you
want to see more of our cleaning videos
why not subscribe it's completely free
and the button is easy to use it's right
down there unless they've moved it and
it's up there somewhere or maybe now
it's on the side I don't know times when
you're watching this video another thing
we'd love for you to do is to send us
your pictures your before-and-after
shots of any room or cleaning project
that you've taken on you can send it to
us at Mellisa @cleanmyspace comm and you
can see we love featuring your pictures
because they provide so much motivation
and inspiration to other people you can
see some of them right here and if you
send yours in maybe I'll give you a nice
little shout-out on facebook or I'll put
yours in an upcoming video don't forget
as always if you found the video helpful
to give us a thumbs up you can visit
cleanmyspace.com which is our wonderful
blog for more cleaning information and
we thank you very much for watching and
we'll see you next time
you